Oh finally for the first time I managed
to click the record button and actually
it was really proud okay so hi everyone
this is like the last stand up for this
quarter which happens to be this print
that was converted to a sprint II know
of using HT and rely to access stuff on
the browser we kind of like try to cram
everything in one week but see what we
got
who wants to take notes who is willing
to take notes
not Jeremy what was the last time okay I
can take notes so someone else go ahead
and I start with Arabic I can go first
because my update is the smallest I
don't have much progress from Wednesday
because I spent much time prepping for
this presentation yesterday what today
anything I have some time to look who
webisodes on-the-go ipfs gateway that's
going to be great
[Music]
mm okay I have I have the wood p2p relay
code working in by itself working on
getting immigration actually working
figuring out the points where it's gonna
plug in is interesting so it should have
that done today
so you said really working and what was
the other thing figuring integration
points for what for relay okay so you
have the curl okay got it
that's what you meant by a tradition
called really go through you myself so I
guess I go I'm getting really close to
having the really working so I have the
I have the basic case working with the
dial in and the relating
I'm working on listening right now on
listen turn on relay endpoint or a relay
address and implement in the I think
it's called onion dialing which is
probably the most involved with the to
close you know
the onion I think I get the integration
points kind of figured out I implemented
it as a transport itself as a lower low
transport so it's it's you know it it
hooks up in all the places that have
regular transport would so I still have
to do some so what I haven't figured out
is whether it should be you know a
special case where it it's loaded always
or we should have some you know like a
more inclusive way of loading it
depending on which whether you have like
an address in your swarm or not thanks
like that so so I'm on that gsfs site
does the does the transport when you do
a lot of transport you give it the
purity that you're dialing yeah okay
we on the go side we strict that out
because like the transport is agnostic
of like what Pierre you're actually
diamond like that information doesn't go
to that layer so I'm trying to figure
out how to plug this in so what I okay
oh I see what you're saying what I gave
it is the yeah I give it the purium full
actually no I gave it a full blown
Madras the multi address and then I
extract a peer ID from that I do need
the PID for circuit otherwise I can't do
much with it right so and then
extracting that I I either do like
explicit dialing on an explicit
transport or I do you know just any
relay that has a connection to that or
the full-blown flow but yeah I'm
hazarded ID that's the
okay yeah cuz like if I'm making it as a
transport the weird thing becomes like
then that means that the TCP transports
and all the other transports get past a
PID which I care about like the TCP
trees should not know what up here ideas
well since it's ghost clarification our
transports do not know what the pure
idea is in terms of I think up like the
abstraction of transport it doesn't know
swarm there's no like swap when swaras
calling the transport it has the pure
info like this container of the
information of the pier and that's like
like it doesn't go it doesn't bleed into
the transport abstraction right but but
yeah like in the beginning like swarm as
like when was calling for a sport with
us or not to have access to the pure
info now it s because we also want to
then register which was the multi other
used to dial at Pierre so that's when we
look if it's connected or not we know
which what the other is being used from
all the available ones so yeah just to
clarify the transport obstruction still
doesn't have right idea what could be ID
yeah so all the the transport does is
basically kind of parse the multi
address expect all the the circuit
endpoints and then has that onto this
form and this form takes care of the
diving from there
so basically kind of it wraps around for
us form but yet what W said basically
I'm thinking I might on the coast I plug
it into the swarm but not as a transport
dialer the transport listener works fine
that's an easy white make the transport
dialer I think it doesn't quite fit so I
don't know if I'm gonna that where it
was the hardest thing for me to figure
out how to plug it in yeah it's really
weird it's really weird but it ended up
being I tried it out that's a transport
finally and it actually ended up being a
lot better than what I thought so I
think that's at least in the Jo side
it's probably the best way to go okay
and ID like this also because like you
can true like there is like this
listening pipeline and like the dialing
pipeline and like you can just try
a connection that you receive as if it
was like a socket that you just open and
likes warm will think all right this is
just one more socket to do the upgrade
dance to second year one speedy and so
you have to do any of that I just mess
it back like when I get the connection
just like a regular dialer it pass back
to just warm in this form just does the
regular flow usually do with a regular
socket so I like with all this talking I
lost your point when you said now I'm
going to do X what is the next part that
you wouldn't need to do for really so I
want to finish up the okay so I need to
finish up the onion dialing basically
the island several relays in the address
and then I think I I think with that
it's it's it's a full-fledged functional
really the other thing I need is
obviously the for passive dialing I need
I need a LS command I need to get the
years for that really
Decimus next thing I need to right now
it's it's it's active or I kind of mock
it just shovel connections into for the
passive one because I need I need to
know which which peers that really knows
about well you can write like you try to
dial it'll tell you know like we have
our codes for that I know I don't have
any connection to this view and I'm like
okay right
you don't yeah that's true that's true
yeah I didn't think about it like that
yeah okay
so yeah we we don't need LS just like a
fun feature it'll be cool because
there's another person who's really
wanting a similar feature and so if we
can figure out a like a good way you
know privacy conscious way of doing this
then that'd be good to make a lot of
people happy
so so definitely something we want to
figure out but it's kind of hard great
one of the things that I can be like a
first step if we have that feature
enabled behind the flag then we can have
a bootstrapper now that the editor and
like if you are dialing to the
bootstrapper nodes you are already
revealing yourself to the network so it
might be good for some before a browser
node or for it no that's like really
down the hall behind a lot of Nats to
thigh out to a bootstrapper and then
like to be able to see which nodes of
wood strawberries aisle two so that they
can rely to these other nodes that are
one up away but just the bootstrappers
not the entire network but we can it's a
setting in the herbs issue as wide
suggested on my scene just a question
unless is you will s say you want the
list of peers connected to that here yep
or just okay all peers scene appears
that you have currently a connection so
that by real life for me without doing
any work
actually right right the DHT already has
a method for this it kind of does we
tried to shove this in to the HT last
thing we were doing really I wrote that
method yesterday
yes I'm like a little confused right now
okay I need a similar feature for in AMA
rating somebody's peers for for routing
later like for for packet routing away
when we want to construct routes through
the network we the probably needed as
well yeah a bit more coupled to thank
you got a list of peers and and a little
part of the route that each of these
thank you we can can design something
that's yeah we're gonna you open an
issue so we can discuss this and can't
get billions
that we want to have in there ready go
anything else not a motorcycle okay cool
pretty only under the next sure yeah
what the HD thing is most things they're
working because they're pretty much for
every single thing it just might not be
working so I'm currently going through
writing more tests and testing various
things and making sure things doing what
they're supposed to do and then it's
currently in isolation it's just in the
DHT module so the next step will then be
integrated into swarm integrated to the
PTP integrated to JSI PFS and implement
the the high level trapping commands and
and all-day integration start and then
do interrupt tests with go on the intro
tests would go I'm a brand new problem
this morning it was an IRC and I think
anybody responded I'm not able to build
either go the P to be DHT or peer stream
they both die and fail with various
error messages that go and GX a very
unhappy about maybe we forget to push
some sync can you send me messages yeah
I can send you my status I did I didn't
update lately and I may have forgotten
to push a repo or somewhere that would
have upset all right
[Music]
I'm posting an IRC cool
yeah so yeah I'm kind of continue
working on this tomorrow up a long train
ride and then I have a long flight so I
hope to finish the major parts on that
flight cool cool
I'll see you in Paris Alvin okay who's
coming to Amsterdam as well but I like
fly at 5 a.m. to arrive at 9:00 to then
weave it then so are you fighting then
now until buying Sunday
I'm arriving tomorrow night and
Amsterdam at nine ish yeah me too so
cool go get a beer we're actually
literally directly inside the airport I
checked the map today it's like oh yeah
the hotel is that you helped the hotel
was like it's part of the effort it's
important hotel so okay that's good to
know because it's four minutes it's a
four minute walk to the train station in
the hotel and to the train station of
the airport
yeah okay okay
might go to - to downtown first to get
something to eat drink some coffee learn
about namsun I'm yours are you leaving
yeah I can see it bye
we might just want to drop overstuffing
because my train goes there if you said
you didn't like yeah I might just go
there well then I'm arriving 9 H 9:30 I
think if you get a ticket so I don't
have a ticket yet yeah I just got my
take it today I posted actually window
make sure
941 okay yeah mine 41 I'm arriving yeah
yeah I can do 941 as well that's
probably the same train because you have
to switch at Amsterdam main yeah I know
nine twenty nine twenty one we are kind
of like so free to have you finished
charity yeah hacking on the all the
transports transportation transport yeah
so okay my update if someone can help me
take that one I've been like working on
all the like so like freedom as prepare
this issue that I a week on the notes it
is like a comprehensive list of all the
things I don't need to happen for tht
freedom has been doing all the hard work
inside the core mojo and I can't drop
tests and so on well I've been like kind
of like cleaning the rest of the pads
for the integration on swarm on pearbook
on theory flow and so on kind of like we
took the opportunity to the redesign
some of API is make them simpler with
the result of like having like removing
so much code from so many modules
because we repeated the number of
operations and now we have I just
cleaner API is that are more convenient
for the typical things that we do
everywhere so that led to a lot of
refactoring I started adding more tests
on the bundles I said any more tests on
swarm like things are in general way
more nicer for people that are touching
nevertheless we the caveat I'm Way more
necessary overhaul swarm still continues
like it it's heavily master like we need
to take a day because like so messy like
it is missing this ball that we keep
wrapping stuff on top and it's manners
yeah big yeah
huge terms M for dried off that like
just jumped into that ball of mine and I
started hanging on it and managed to do
something with it like very fast without
asking questions for anyone really fast
because like it is really nasty
we need to prefer to read at some point
so so yeah so that yeah there's changes
in people in pure info in purity peers
for immunity pure the base class no js'
I've marked them all so like today was a
day that we finished all of the details
and merge them all filled with pupae no
Jess
which means free dough now you can like
start integrating digital I will update
now the browser version and then like
foots a bit swap and then just a DFS to
use these new AP eyes and also to start
consuming the connected addresses from
the ones that are active on people so
the thing that was saying before in the
beginning of the call we now register
which multi other we are using when we
dial to someone so we will start
printing the writings the others when we
like swarm peers and not like all the
others that we know so that will be nice
and also for users and yeah so that's
what I'm focused after I do this I still
I'm not sure what is more important if I
should like as the way to see recording
to pearbook like if that's cool be very
quick it's like doing things like
recording the effort so on the latency
recording well I don't think go so all
the latency recording I'm not sure is
it's a nice to have it's I don't think
God there's anything with the
information so it's like man yeah okay
it's like so what is important though
what you eat is connection closing we
need to close on interface connection I
need that because I need to open
specifically diappears to check if they
actually can speak DHT yeah and then
need to close that connection again and
that's going to be a multiplex
connection so we really we have
connection closing we the only thing
that like
doesn't happen right now he's like when
you dial to like a peer and you have
like ten different multi others if you
happen to like nail on like two or more
sockets you are going to not close
graciously one of them you're just going
to use one of them and the other ones
will be like lingering there but
connection closing happens like you can
angle your and you can like yeah but I
can but but if I do it
dial on the tht protocol yeah
I can't explicitly say like close this
thing because I'm actually not meaning
it I just wanted to test you I can use
pull empty but but as not you can like
pull guarantee you can do dial without
protocol
nobody wanted I want to do diet so I
both I have died without protocol to
ensure connection and I have dial with a
protocol where I want to just know you
speak this protocol right so connections
except I'm happy and I want to suppose
it and for dad said oh you died enta fie
and get the protocols from the other end
and then you hang up if it doesn't speak
what you want right yeah you know it's
actually it's actually it's actually
full connection establishing on the HT
protocol and done and then hanging up
yeah see if we use the same ask Lourdes
use the same pipe for how you use yeah
if there's a connection already open so
just like in bit swap I never like if I
open a bit swap stream to you a stream
out the connection like you are not
going to send me blocks on that one
you are going I'm just going to send you
stuff and I know if you want to send to
me you open a bit from swim to me and
what I'm asking is like when I open a DT
stream to you are you going to write
beta on that stream or are you going to
open another stream to me if you want to
write it out to me I think so this yeah
so I have I have I'm gonna open my
stream
to you and just see if I can do that and
close it yeah
- no you speak tht yeah and if I
actually want to send you data I'm gonna
open the neither stream yeah but like
the other side will never write anything
through that first stream if I do it on
both know the distribute that's really
in empty connection like open
check close yeah nobody should ever
write something on that connection okay
so yeah so yeah so that's what's that's
like the idea I'm having is so you can
by default as soon as a connection open
write a pawlenty like if you open a
connection to me you can write pool
empty so if I want to test you I can
like open a connection and then do PO
empty and that connection is wearing it
- sorry that stream is going to get
closed graciously always yeah so we can
do like it if we do we have that
guarantee that is always going to be
closed graciously if we'd pull yeah
that's right that's not part of the
stream boxer all right cool yeah I'm
doing I'm already doing plenty so if
that is if that gives us all the
guarantees being made I'm happy yeah I
just want don't wanna make sure I'm not
just generating overhead yeah I think is
like the clothes the other thing is we
talking about the clothes is more
closing all the sockets that were open
till them till the socket level so like
we have this connection obstruction we
need to have a closed that propagates to
the sockets that like causes destroying
on the circuit or whatever method is
called on that transport we basically
need to provide to the interface
transport to have that method defined so
that every transport implements it and
so on that that it was perceived very
much so
so let's take this one these two like
the advocacy recording and clothes
method to interface connection out
what's definitely have the close method
but that's a different thing we
integrate into a peer-to-peer
integrating to just a profess you can
all do the integration into a
peer-to-peer well I guess like I can
also help you with that yeah so on the
on the integration to it p2p yeah I mean
the integration to the PGP is actually
pretty straightforward it's just you
just need to figure out where we just
want to instantiate it DHT and where and
how we want to do that when the base
class needs a on the base class yeah
okay then it's a pretty straightforward
we just need to feel you just need to
pass it the p2p instance itself and
that's happy and and goes goes on one
thing is a note on that is the Nietzsche
thing he doesn't have a shutdown command
there is no way to stop it
cannot just you stop it cannot be
stopped
I I didn't make it so that it doesn't
throw up when the p2p gets stopped so in
theory you should it should be enough to
just stop the p2p and the deal she will
not be able to do anything with network
anymore which is sad but it should what
cannot eat ever stop it could have a
stop I just didn't do one can we have
one because I also didn't start do a
start one we actually need one we want
because like you for example I don't
recall there is a flag in the config
like for provider like there's a flag
that you can say or even icon the air
that you can say that you don't want to
provide those records that you're adding
so you need to have a way to that's it
but that happens on the JSF FS level
where you you need to call provide
explicitly if you had something what I
mean is like should there should be an
options that gets passed through
peer-to-peer to activate or deactivate
the routing and I there should be also
something that gets exposed like to to
enable and disable that and like why not
like Davichi is chatty enough and like
like it is one of those protocols that
generates a lot of chaos like for some
test is better to I have turned off so
that we can have a better understanding
of what's going on right we could just
not understand she I did them yeah but
like we can also like just let it be and
eben on yeah on enough like we have bit
swap and all the other things and it's
just gonna be a whole thing it's just
work
yeah like for example be chilly so ever
start because like you only you can only
turn like did she cannot only be working
and sending probes if we peer-to-peer is
on and like if I do leap UTP stop these
to like freak out the next moment
because then I hear is that that's what
I said I it's intelligent enough it
checks it whip it appears online and if
it is not as offline we just stop doing
stuff okay well let's just it just
checks on look at me node hey are you
online I can't do anything you're not
okay so it will start and stop with the
Whitlam p2p currently yeah yeah but
let's have the on and off nevertheless
I'm sure that will be really like yeah
I'm not saying it's not good I just
don't want to do it okay already so much
[Laughter]
but I'm only gonna do it if you make the
virus just your wonder world for me
freedo you think cool cool okay so let
me get back to the end
okay can you create an issue for the
latency recording in people yeah so that
we don't forget about it I'm just gonna
strike it through for now alrighty then
okay cool
is there any outstanding questions that
people would like to see answered or is
there any information it okay
does everyone feel that their time was
well spent in this call was it useful so
awesome okay so I have a great rest of
your day
or a great day if you are starting your
day and enjoy your weekend and let's get
this ship so close when I'm not aware of
when is the what are we gonna ship this
like when is the next release I guess oh
yeah hey what is it we don't have a like
a fix really schedule okay we we like to
like like do my helper she's ready all
the relay code it's even my cat why you
are so fast okay so trying to not get
distracted be trying you feel free to
continue play so yeah next week as you
know we have like this lively thing
where we spend a lot of time talking and
preparing a discussing and so I cannot
promise me or Friedel or Jaime or
whomever to like review extensively all
the code I like if relay and each TRT
where we have like tests and tests and
tests and like we we try it we we check
out the latest the wrenches and every
good thing works super fine then we
might we like you add much it by next
week but like relays release only the
way cutter so that we can like put up
any fires if we need to but yeah
optimally we should have everything
ready by next week to certain merchant
night in the week after Mars and
regarding go a PFS Katia vessels on a
two-week release schedule and yesterday
oh for a it was released so the next one
like the rc4 o49 is gonna be in one week
and then the offer 9 release in two
weeks and I'm not hundred percent sure
we can get the relay in but regardless
and I'm gonna push for a bit more time
for browser integration right at the
start of April like after lap week just
because we're all focused into it and
we're getting really close and we're
super close people really propose also
just a warning for all the JavaScript
people there is a sprint coming up
hopefully or go ipfs about connection
closing we're gonna need that sprint to
as soon as we have the DHT yeah yeah
yeah reputation mechanism because that's
what really needs to be
but yeah it's there's a lot of
interesting research under them cool
super cool yeah super cool one more
thing do we you asked what you could
like where you could do stuff the public
facing API of the DIA she's pretty and
if you look at it yeah it should be its
tribute all documented so what you
couldn't do starting it work on is the
correct the methods in Jason cthis so
the CLI and the core methods yeah sounds
good yeah okay
so I'll finish Alice L like the the
browser and I could swap and so unlike
all those updated I need to push and
then I'll stop working yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah that that's great and also I
will port the DTS that we have ingested
because if you like to the interface IP
tasks or that we run those batch of
tests for both implementations yeah and
the sureness test if we can get that but
it uses IP DB so I'm not sure if we can
I still need to like spend time on
Charnas because right now just like a
thing that friends and I kids don't like
it's good because it it is like so
static like no one touches those tests
so like you know we fit the file you
broke something like but I was like I
don't know like for example I don't know
how much of the sharpness has changed in
go ipfs because we don't have them in a
separate repo it's like do I need to
keep like pulling them down another
thing like if my PFS keeps realizing
this way like we need to automate the
process of like updating ipfs diamond
controller and like pushing just ipfs
api with a new version because i ain't
nobody got time to like be doing that
manually every two weeks right like it
is like four modules that need to be
desig manually and like released
sequentially to like a place each time
to ideate press releases yeah that means
to be a script at least yeah so yeah
that's what I have a bridge already
pretty time we don't open for everyone
all right awesome
Oh guys I
right thank you bye-bye but